well howdy there and enough people it's
bubble again so tonight it's gonna be a
weird one sparked by a request from some
of my friends so tonight we're gonna
talk about what a drink can teach us
about brexit Ireland nuance
romanticizing things just a whole bunch
of stuff all boil down to a drink okay
so some background information before we
get started for Americans who may not
have been keeping up with this Northern
Ireland is part of the United Kingdom
the United Kingdom has left the European
Union there out gone okay
the Republic of Ireland is not part of
the United Kingdom now this leads to a
whole lot of questions that have very
serious very serious consequences in
regards to the border between Northern
Ireland and the Republic it has more or
less been open okay it's been a soft
border and the majority of those people
on that that imaginary line they wanted
to remain that way and we're not just
talking about trade groups and economic
groups who engage in cross-border trade
a lot of groups because of the rhetoric
used to achieve brexit there is a big
concern that it will become a hard
border that it will become
check points perhaps even militarized
that for a lot of groups especially
those groups who the Irish American
community has romanticized in a lot of
ways that is quite literally a
triggering issue that is something that
can cause violence a hard border will
will cause violence one of the dangers
of imaginary lines becoming a little too
real so let's this have to do with the
drink a very popular drink in the United
States is whiskey cream and stout what's
it called
not anymore okay so it's been called a
car bomb without issue for last 20 years
or so nobody's really kind of raised an
eyebrow when you say that my friends
stereotypes being what they are are most
are you know first generation Americans
and yeah big surprise they own bars they
want to take that drink off the menu if
you want that it is now called an Irish
slammer you're gonna see this request
made a whole lot over the next month
according to them it's going to be on
social media they're they're going to
try to rename that drink and get rid of
it now there's a whole bunch of reasons
for this one is kind of odd the Irish
American community asking to be more
sensitive to about a subject that's not
something that happens often but there
there are practical applications to this
to one they don't want to even remotely
be seen as supporting any violence over
this which is odd given some of their
history yes
but the there's a real concern that they
don't they don't want to feed into that
the other aspect to it is in the United
States there has been a long history of
bars supporting one side or the other
and not just with empty words but
sometimes with money one of my favorite
things to do when I have a friend who's
actually from Ireland who comes over is
to take them to an Irish bar in the US
around 1:00 a.m. on a Saturday night
when a whole bunch of people who have
never set foot in Ireland are singing a
soldier song boys the old brigade you
know men behind the wire stuff like that
it is shocking to them because over
there generally things have healed tones
have softened a whole lot more than in
the United States which in many cases
tones of heartened and that tends to be
the case when anything gets romanticized
if you're romanticizing something and
you weren't actually a part of it if you
weren't one of the people dodging the
actual rubber bullets not just the songs
or the actual car bombs yeah it's easy
to look at it as black and white the
reality is that's a conflict that went
on for 800 years there's a whole lot of
nuance to it
yeah some issues are black and white you
can look at it in the sense of
imperialism and colonialism and yeah
sure but that doesn't matter much to
people who were actually impacted one of
the interesting things that I've noticed
is that many of those who were active in
the more recent flare-ups their tones
have softened a lot and they tend to
appreciate the nuance in fact I'm gonna
put a song that doesn't get song a lot
in the United States down in the
comments
and that was written by somebody who was
active and if you listen to it you
there's a lot of nuance there's a lot of
understanding it's something that we
need to be aware of and not just in the
sense of ordering a drink on st.
Patrick's Day but in the sense of this
is the whole reason this is coming about
is rhetoric it's an imaginary line it's
a line drawn without them happen it's
not worth people dying over it's not
worth militarizing you know this is one
of those things if you let people the
people there decide what's going to
happen it you're not gonna have this
issue there they're still going to be be
nationalist tendencies among some but
that a hard border is just handing a
recruitment tool to them it is handing a
cause for more violence when there
doesn't have to be one breaks it was
about catching votes there's no reason
for people to die over that and if
you're in the US and you are a part of
that Irish American community unless
you're gonna go there and fight shut up
just show me there's uh they have enough
to deal with from their own government
they don't need cheerleaders they don't
need cheerleaders egging it on
that conflict like many like most like
almost all it's the civilian that ends
up paying the price and it's not
something that we should support even
even unintentionally the romantic
elements are there and if you're part of
the Irish American community especially
the more recent wave you're you probably
have Republican loyalties believe me I
understand I know the songs too you grew
up with them we're entering a new age
and self-determination notwithstanding
it's a little different today the
reasons for violence are are lessening
and truthfully this may participate a a
peaceful united Ireland if it's given
the chance anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night